---
nid: P-1030
title: Elizabeth Frances Culley (1880-1952)
created: 2017-02-06 17:23:33
changed: 2023-05-20 20:30:22
promote: false
forenames: Elizabeth Frances
family_name: Culley
maiden_name: Twynam
gender: female
father: P-792
mother: P-791
spouse: 
    - P-1035
date_of_birth: "1880"
date_of_death: "1952"
birth_record: {year: 1880, quarter: July-September, district: D-2364}
marriage_records: 
    - {year: 1914, quarter: April-June, district: D-2364}
death_record: {year: 1952, quarter: July-September, district: D-3118}
---
Born 19th April 1880 in the Droxford district, the second child of John and Mary Twynam.  
 Aged 7 months she appears on the 1881 census living with her parents and older sister as East Hoe, Soberton, with a nurse, Cook and housemaid also part of the household. Her father is a farmer of 500 acres. They still lived at East Hoe in 1891, where they were "Living on own means". The family now has 7 children, and employs a governess, nurse, cook and housemaid.   
 By 1901 the family lived at Manor Farm, Soberton (near the church), "Living on own means". She was living with her parents and 3 younger brothers, and one servant (governess). By 1911 she lived at Soberton House with her parents and one brother (Hugh), and one domestic servant.   
   
 She married Geoffry Matthew George Culley 16th April 1916 at St Peter's Soberton, which was described in detail in the newspapers at the time. It seems to have been quite the event!  
 The couple then moved to Semley, Wiltshire (where husband Geoffry's mother was from) where their first son (George William) was born and baptised in Semley church 11th March 1915.   
 Her husband was killed in WWI in 1916, days before the birth of their second son (Geoffrey Matthew: born 27th September 1916). Geoffrey's baptism took place 26th October 1916 at Tisbury church, with his father listed as an Army Officer, so the family may not have known about his death at this time. The family are listed as living at Hillside, Wardour, Tisbury, Wiltshire.  
   
 Elizabeth was living at Sunhill, Alresford on the 1939 Register, with son Geoffrey and mother-in-law Eleanor. They were living off private means. Elizabeth seems to have joined the ATS as a section deputy during the War. Geoffrey was enrolled at [ Wye college](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wye_College) of Agriculture, training to be a farmer, and seems to have been listed as "incapacitated" but its unclear.  
   
 Both sons died in WWII.  
 Geoffrey was killed 17th May 1942 in Libya. He was a Sergeant, wireless operator/air gunner, RAF VR, 39th Squadron.  
 George was killed 24th March 1945 in Germany. He was a Major in the 53rd (Worcestershire Yeomanry) Airlanding Light Regiment, Royal Artillery. He received a Military Cross.  
 In 1949 Elizabeth gave a new electrical mechanism for the St John's Church clock (New Alsford) in their memory. There is a plaque in the church.
