---
nid: P-1856
title: Thomas Walter Holmes (1839-1899)
created: 2022-10-09 19:41:06
changed: 2023-04-14 19:37:10
promote: false
forenames: Thomas Walter
family_name: Holmes
gender: male
spouse: 
    - P-1857
children: 
    - P-1875
grave: G-456
date_of_birth: "1839"
date_of_death: "1899-05-01"
marriage_records: 
    - {year: 1867, quarter: January-March, district: D-2799}
death_record: {year: 1899, quarter: January-March, district: D-2364}
---
Born the eldest child of the seven children of Alexander Day and Martha Holmes in Soberton, and baptised at St Peter's Soberton 1st December 1839.  
 The 1841 census lists the family living at West Hall \[at this time listed in Meonstoke\]. They were still there in 1851 and 1861 \[when it was listed in Soberton\], and by 1861 Thomas was working as a Sawyer.  
 He married Eliza Dollery 12th March 1867 at St Mary's, Portsea, and they lived in Droxford for a few years, appearing on their children's baptismal records at Soberton. The 1871 census lists the family in Droxford, and he is working as a "nursery man" or gardener. At this time Eliza's two brothers are also lodging with the family. By 1874 they have moved to Soberton, but he is still listed as a gardener, however, in 1875 he makes his first appearance in the Hampshire County Directory as the Publican at the White Lion. The 1881 census lists the family (now 6 children) living at the "White Lion Inn" where he is "Inn Keeper", where they still are in 1891 (although the eldest son has moved out). However, when daughter Louisa is getting married, in April 1892, he is listed as "Hotel Proprietor". Both the 1895 and 1898 County Directories listed him as Publican at White Lion.  
   
   
   
 Children: Edith Hellen (1868), Herbert Charles (1869); Louisa Mary (1870); Henry William (1872); Clara (1874); Millie (1877); Thomas Walter (1879); Alexander Day (1881)
