---
nid: P-1857
title: Eliza Holmes (1842-1914)
created: 2022-10-09 19:50:49
changed: 2023-04-14 19:35:32
promote: false
forenames: Eliza
family_name: Holmes
maiden_name: Dollery
gender: female
spouse: 
    - P-1856
children: 
    - P-1875
grave: G-456
date_of_birth: "1842"
date_of_death: "1914-11-10"
marriage_records: 
    - {year: 1867, quarter: January-March, district: D-2799}
death_record: {year: 1914, quarter: October-December, district: D-2779}
---
Born in Soberton to Charles and Ann Dollery. Baptised 22nd December 1844 at St Peter's Soberton.  
 In 1851 census lists Charles, Ann and 3 children living in Soberton, Charles was a farm labourer. By 1861 she was working as a Housemaid at Manor House, Droxford (aged 17).  
   
 She married Thomas Walter Holmes 12th March 1867 at St Mary's, Portsea, and they lived in Droxford for a few years, appearing on their children's baptismal records at Soberton. The 1871 census lists the family in Droxford, and Eliza's two brothers (Henry and William) are also lodging with the family. By 1874 they have moved to Soberton, and in 1875 Thomas makes his first appearance in the Hampshire County Directory as the Publican at the White Lion. The 1881 census lists the family (now 6 children) living at the "White Lion Inn" where he is "Inn Keeper", where they still are in 1891 (although the eldest son has moved out). Both the 1895 and 1898 County Directories listed him as Publican at White Lion.  
   
 After Thomas' death Eliza stayed on at the White Lion. The 1901 census lists Eliza as "Inn Keeper" likely of the White Lion, with daughter Millie assisting. Alexander is also living with them, and he is working as a "Rural Postman". By 1911 Eliza and Millie are still running the White Lion. This confirms Eliza had 8 children, and that two have died by this time. Also staying with them is James Willis, a Carpenter and Joiner, who Millie married later that year.  
 Eliza died whilst living at Peak Farm, East Meon with daughter Lousia.  
   
 Children: Edith Hellen (1868), Herbert Charles (1869); Louisa Mary (1870); Henry William (1872); Clara (1874); Millie (1877); Thomas Walter (1879); Alexander Day (1881)
