---
nid: P-749
title: Edward Wyatt (1840-1920)
created: 2016-11-22 13:42:56
changed: 2023-04-17 20:52:03
promote: false
forenames: Edward
family_name: Wyatt
gender: male
spouse: 
    - P-748
children: 
    - P-751
grave: G-397
date_of_birth: "1840-03-29"
date_of_death: "1920"
birth_record: {year: 1840, quarter: January-March, district: D-2720}
marriage_records: 
    - {year: 1862, quarter: April-June, district: D-2800}
---
He was born in Chudleigh, Devon (Newton Abbot district) to William and Sarah Wyatt, and was Baptised 13th June 1841 in Chudleigh, although his military record gives his DoB as 29th March 1840. He appears at age 1 week on the 1841 census living at Woodwas Street, Chudleigh, with his parents. His father worked as an Agricultural Labourer. By 1851 the census lists him living and working as an Agricultural Labourer on Waddon Farm, Chudleigh - at age 9.   
 The 1861 census lists him aboard HMS Victor Emanuel (which was stationed in the Mediterranean). He seems to have lied about his age to be here (he's listed as 22) and this doesn't match up with his Military records. He joined the Navy 29th March 1868; he was 5'9 1/2", with dark hair, grey eyes and had a "Crown &amp; Wreath" tattoo on his left arm. He served 10 years, before becoming a 'Pensioner'.  
 Mary Ann Bowers married Edward Wyatt at St Thomas, Portsmouth - 8th May 1862  
 The 1871 census lists them at 38 Fyning Street, Portsea with 2 daughters (Elizabeth and Mary G). Edward is a RN seaman. By 1881 the census lists them at 17 Havant Street, Portsea. Edward is now a pensioner (Greenwich), which ties with his Military record. The 1891 census lists them at 7 Stamshaw Road, Portsea. Edward is a retired RN and Beer Retailer. Also living with them is their daughter Elizabeth S and her husband Thomas Mills, who is a Royal Marine.  
 1901 census lists them living in Soberton Heath. Also with them is Mary Gertrude Anderson (their married daughter), and three grandchildren (Lilian, Donald, John). By the 1911 census they are living at Yew Tree Cottage, Soberton. Edward is a Naval Pensioner. Also in the household is Donald Anderson (Grandson by Mary) who is a Telegraph Boy for the Post Office; and Elizabeth Roland (Mary Ann's sister). They have been married 48 years and have 2 children.   
   
 Possible record on FreeBMD Q1/1920 at Alverstoke, aged 78 which isn't same as grave. Age also doesn't fit with the recorded DoB from his Military Record, and appearance on 1841 census.
