---
nid: P-792
title: John Twynam (1855-1918)
created: 2017-01-04 22:26:18
changed: 2023-05-20 22:43:06
promote: true
forenames: John
family_name: Twynam
gender: male
spouse: 
    - P-791
children: 
    - P-1030
    - P-795
    - P-1029
    - P-1031
    - P-1032
    - P-1033
    - P-1034
grave: G-457
date_of_birth: "1855"
date_of_death: "1918-01-05"
birth_record: {year: 1855, quarter: October-December, district: D-2364}
marriage_records: 
    - {year: 1878, quarter: July-September}
death_record: {year: 1918, quarter: January-March, district: D-2800}
---
He was born in Soberton as the third child of William and Elizabeth Twynam. He was baptised 6th November 1855 at St Peter's, where his father is listed as a Yeoman (landowner).  
 The 1861 census lists him living with his parents and older sister Eleanor at Hoe Farm. His father owns 441 acres, and employs 9 men and 6 boys, as well as 3 domestic servants. (his sister Elizabeth was living with their aunt elsewhere in Soberton).  
 He does not appear on the 1871 census with his father and 2 sisters (his mother had died by this time) at Hoe Farm, so it is likely that he had gone to Ireland.  
 He married Mary Rachel Baker in Bansha, Tipperary, Ireland 25th September 1878.  
 The 1881 census lists him living with his new wife, and two daughters at East Hoe, Soberton. He was a farmer of 500 acres, employing 11 men and 3 boys, as well as a nurse, cook, and housemaid as part of the household. They still lived at East Hoe in 1891, where he was "Living on own means". The family now had 7 children, and employed a governess, as well as a nurse, cook, and housemaid.  
 By 1901 the family lived at Manor Farm, Soberton "Living on own means". Elizabeth, William, Charles and Godfrey were all still at home, and one servant. By 1911 they lived at Soberton House with only Elizabeth and Hugh at home (Hugh is a Banker's Clerk), and one domestic servant.  
   
 Of their sons only Charles survived the war; Elizabeth lost her husband (later her two sons as well during WWII), and Mary had emigrated to Australia around 1902.   
   
 His Probate lists him as "of Soberton House" but as dying at 26 Kent Road, Southsea.  
   
 Children:  
 Mary (1879-1953); Elizabeth (1880-1952); William Hugh (1883-1915); John (1884-1914); Hugh (1888-1917); Charles (1891-1951); Godfrey (1891-1916)
