---
nid: P-790
title: William Twynam (1808-1876)
created: 2017-01-04 21:58:19
changed: 2023-05-21 22:01:18
promote: false
forenames: William
family_name: Twynam
gender: male
spouse: 
    - P-789
children: 
    - P-792
grave: G-457
date_of_birth: "1808-07-07"
date_of_death: "1876-11-13"
death_record: {year: 1876, quarter: October-December, district: D-2364}
---
Born 7th July 1808 in Warnford as the younger twin of John Twynam to John and Ann Twynam. They were baptised in Warnford 18th July 1808. The family shortly moved to Soberton where the boys were baptised again 23rd May 1812.  
   
 The 1841 census lists John Twynam (65) living on Upper Street, Soberton with Elizabeth, John and William (all 30). John (sr) is of independent means, but his two sons were farmers. The household employed 2 female and 4 male servants.  
 The 1851 census lists him living with his brother John and older sister Elizabeth at Soberton Farm. Although John is head of the household (owning 363 acres), William owned/ ran his own farm of 441 acres, employing 15 labourers.  
   
 No obvious marriage record, but all three children were born in Soberton and baptised at St Peters in 1850s  
 The 1861 census lists him at Hoe Farm aged 54, with his wife Elizabeth, and two children (Eleanor and John). He owned 441 acres, employing 9 labourers and 6 boys, as well as 3 domestic servants. (Their eldest daughter Elizabeth was living with his sister Elizabeth). By the 1871 census his wife Elizabeth had died, but he was still living at Hoe Farm (listed as aged 62), with both daughters. He now owned 450 acres, employing 11 men and 5 boys, and 2 domestic servants.  
   
 He died 13th November 1876 and was buried at St Peters 18th November 1876. He left a will, and his farm passed to his son John.  
   
 Children:  
 Elizabeth Alice (1853); Eleanor Ann (1854); John (1855)  
 Elizabeth married Dr William Blake, had 9 children and died in 1924 in Harpenden, Herts  
 Eleanor trained and worked as a Nurse, she never married, and died in 1909
