---
nid: P-833
title: Thomas Bucksey (1830-1915)
created: 2017-01-11 19:41:58
changed: 2023-01-06 18:26:53
promote: false
forenames: Thomas
family_name: Bucksey
gender: male
father: P-1057
mother: P-1058
spouse: 
    - P-834
children: 
    - P-993
grave: G-451
date_of_birth: "1830"
date_of_death: "1915-12-21"
marriage_records: 
    - {year: 1851, quarter: July-September, district: D-2427}
death_record: {year: 1915, quarter: October-December, district: D-2364}
---
He was baptised in St Peter's Church, Soberton, 31st December 1831.  
 The 1841 census lists him living with his parents at Greenfield, but 1851 he was living in Hambledon, working for Henry Blake as an Agricultural Labourer. He married Mary shortly after the census in 1851. Listed on 1861 census with wife and 3 older children (Charles, William, James), at 'Cot Street' Soberton, next door to, his parents: John and Maria Bucksey. By the 1871 census he, Mary and 7 children were living on Pond Row, Soberton. Thomas does not have a listed occupation, but his two eldest son's are Carters. The 1881 census lists the family (9 children) at Upper Heath, Soberton. Thomas is a Farm Carter (with the 5 eldest children all working). He is listed on the 1891 census with his wife and 4 children (Edward, Sidney, Fred, Alice) in Soberton/Newtown as an agricultural labourer.  
 The 1901 census lists him, Mary and Sidney at Woodside, Soberton. Thomas is listed as a "Small Farmer". By 1911 he, Mary and Sidney lived in Soberton Heath, and he is a "Small Holder".  
   
 Sons Charles (not be confused with his brother Charles who was much the same age and also married an Annie) and Walter worked at Hampshire County Asylum in 1891, [Knowle Hospital](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowle_Hospital).  
   
 Children:  
 Charles (1853), William (1858), James (1861), Mary Ann (4 February 1862) (who married James Stubington), Edward (8 March 1864), Walter (1867), George (1870), Sidney (1876), Fred (1877), Alice (1879),
