---
nid: P-992
title: James Stubbington (1860-1952)
created: 2017-01-25 21:48:42
changed: 2023-01-06 21:40:22
promote: false
forenames: James
family_name: Stubbington
gender: male
spouse: 
    - P-993
children: 
    - P-1804
grave: G-606
date_of_birth: "1860-01-19"
date_of_death: "1952-10-28"
birth_record: {year: 1861, quarter: April-June, district: D-2364}
marriage_records: 
    - {year: 1885, quarter: April-June, district: D-2799}
death_record: {year: 1952, quarter: October-December, district: D-2364}
---
Born 19th January 1860 (according to the 1939 register) as the 6th child of James and Mary Stubbington.  
 Siblings - Elizabeth 1847, Alfred 1850, Ester 1852, Ellen 1856, Thomas 1859, James 1861, Frank 1864  
 On the 1861 census James was listed as 2 months old living with his parents and 4 older siblings on Webbs Green, and his father was a Hurdle Maker. By the 1871 census the family were living on Soberton Lane and by the 1881 census he was still living in Soberton with his parents and two older brothers. By this time he has joined his father and older brother and was working as a Hurdle Maker.  
 He married Mary Ann in the Portsea district in the spring of 1885.  
 The 1891 census lists the two of them living in "Maybush" in Soberton, with their two sons; James is still working as a Hurdle Maker. By 1901 they had 4 children (and two visitors) and were living on Liberty Road \[interestingly there seems to have been some confusion by the numerator about whether this was in Soberton or Newtown...\]. James was working as a Market Gardener, along with his eldest son - William. The 1911 census lists the family (all with full names) at Forest Lodge, Newtown. James and Mary Ann have been married 25 years and have had 4 children, and he is working as a Dairy Farmer employing his sons.  
 The 1939 register lists them living at Little Bere Farm, Soberton. James is a small holder, and Mary Ann's brother Edward is living with them.   
   
 Children:  
 William James (1886), Frederick (1890), Evelyn Alice (Eva) (1896), Percy Arthur (Arthur) (1901)
